Machine Learning Week 6
Debugging a learning algorithm...what to do if it is making big errors?
- get more training examples
- try smaller set of features, choose the subset to prevent overfitting
- get new features
- add polynomial features
- increase/decrease lambda

which option to pick? Don't choose randomly
apply machine learning diagnostic, a test to gain insight to what isn't working in an algorithm and thus how to improve performance 

Evaluating a hypothesis:
is it overfitting? 
can't plot h(x) if there is a lot of features
70/30 (training : test split)
instead compute Jtest which is the error for the testing set 

Model selection & Train/Validation/Test Sets
once parameters are fit to test set, the error of these parameters on the test set is likely to be lower than the actual generalisation error. 

model selection: 
in addition to theta parameters, what degree of polynomial do we want to fit to data set?
d = degree of polynomial 
compute test error for different model/parameter sets
use model with lowest test set error
however..this test set error isn't likely to reflect how well the model will generalise, because the extra parameter was chosen to fit the test set. 
so split dataset into three pieces: training, test and validation 
choose model on test set, validate on validation set. 
split 60,20,20


test hypothses on the validation set to pick the  hypo w/ lowest error
then estimate a generalisation error on the test set. 


Bias vs Variance: 
Bias = Underfitting (e.g. you are assuming there is a linear relationship)
Variance = Overfitting
plot: error for training and validation against degree of polynomial
training error will decrease with degree of polynomial 
validation error will be a bowl-like curve (convex curve), peak on either end corresponds to high bias/high variance
thus
Bias(underfit): Jtrain and Jval both high
Variance(Overfit): Jtrain low but Jval high 

Regularization & Bias/Variance:
Large lambda = high bias 
small lambda = high variance 
how to automatically choose value for lambda? 
step up lambda from 0 in multiples of 2 till 10.24
12 models w/ 12 values of lambda 
choose one with lowest J on cv set.
to calculate actual error...one you have set the theta parameters on the training set get rid of the lambda term for J(train) and J(val), it has served its purpose. 
