WEEK 11: Machine Learning Application Casestudy. PHOTO OCR 

Photo OCR: Photo optical character recognition 
Photo OCR pipeline: 

1. Text Detection
2. Character Segmentation 
3. Character Classification

Defining a problem as a pipeline is often the most critical step for a ML algorithm.
What are the steps to acheive the desired end?

Sliding Windows Classifier:
Text detections is difficult, rectangles can have different aspect ratios. (ratio between height and width). 

Supervised learning for pedestrian detection. 
82*36 image patches
learn on patches that contain pedestrains 
and some that do not 
neural network can identify an 82*36 image patch and decide whether contains pedestrian or not. 

on a new image, take patch and slide across to cover entire image. and decide which patches contain pedestrians. Step size/stride - how far we move the rectangle. 
take large patches, resize to 82*36 

what about when we have different aspect ratios? 
take a fixed size window and find text

draw rectangles around all regions with text in image 

take output classifier and apply to it expansion operator 
is a pixel within 5 pixels of a white pixel? if so colour it white

use heuristics to ignore rectangles with clearly wrong aspect ratios (too tall and thin) 
draw rectnagles around the regions that look right 

then do character segmentation. Use a 1D sliding window
train character segmentation on patches that are midpoint between characters and patches that aren't
1D - slide window in one straight line left to right. 

then do character recognition - like we did for number recognition 1D sliding window on segmented characters

Getting lots of data and artificial Data:
Artificial Data Synthesis: create data from scratch/small labelled training set, amplify it into larger training set 
e.g. Character Recognition 
more training examples, take characters and paste against random backgrounds, unlimited supply of training examples for artificial data synthesis
introduce distortions, warp character A to give more examples 
this can help in speech recognition, distort it with various effects. 

note, distortion u introduce should be representative of the distortions you see in the test set. just doing it arbirtariley is unlikely to help. 

Discussion on getting more data:
1. Before expending more effort getting more data, make sure you have a low bias high variance classifier (plot learning curves!) 
2. How much work would it be to get 10x more data?
Artificial data synthesis
Collect/Label data yourself
Crowd Source - Amazon Mechanical Turk (hire people on web to label large datasets for you)


Ceiling analysis: What part of the pipeline to work on next 
Estimating the error due to each component: 
What part of the pipeline should you spend most time to improve? 


Single real number evaluation metric for leaning system
Character level accuracy? Photo OCR

Overall 72% 
Text Detection 89% (If we perfect text detection by manually telling algorithm where text is i.e. 100% td accuracy), look at effect on accuracy %
perfect both character segmentation and td 90%
performance increase 17% with perfect td
1% with perfect cr
10% with perfect cr

Don't trust your gut feeling trust the analysis

